1.	Purpose of the Medical Collection Management Policy
This Policy is to be read in conjunction with the University’s Library Collection Management Policy [available at http://www.bristol.ac.uk/library/using/policies/collection-mgt-policy.html [accessed 20/09/2011].  The purpose of the Medical Subject Policy (hereinafter, the Policy) is to provide Academic Library Representatives and Library staff with guidelines for making decisions on the development, management and exploitation of Library medical collections.  The Policy is also available on the University website as a source of information for students and researchers. 
The Policy has been developed by the University of Bristol Medical Faculty Librarian and Medical Subject Librarians in consultation with Academic Library Representatives in the Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry and the Faculty of Medical and Veterinary Sciences.  
In this Policy “medical subject” includes “oral and dental science”, “medical sciences” and “veterinary sciences”.
2.	Brief history of the medical subject collections
The present day Medical Library collection was developed from the amalgamation of the collections of the Bristol [Infirmary] Medical Library (collection created 1831 and transferred 1892 to the then University College after the City took over the collection), the Bristol Medico-Chirurgical Society (collection created 1874 and managed under joint ownership from 1892) and the Bristol General Hospital (collection transferred 1894).  In 1925 the University of Bristol Medical Library was established with the help of an endowment of funds in memory of J Michell Clarke (1860-1918) and G Munro Smith, grants from the University and the formal transfer of ownership of the Medico-Chirurgical Society’s large collection of journals and books.   Dr Michell Clarke played a leading part in establishing the University, and was Professor of Medicine, Pro Vice Chancellor and a physician; Dr Munro Smith, a graduate of Bristol Medical School, was a tutor at the University College and surgeon at the Bristol Royal Infirmary (see also 5(a)iv).  (Parker, 1933).  In 1963 the Medical Library was moved to the newly built Medical Sciences Building at University Walk (Roberts, 1970).  The Library was extensively refurbished in 2008 as part of the University’s LifeZone project.  In 2011 Dental Library collections and services relocated to the Medical Library.
The Clinical Veterinary Sciences Library was established after the Veterinary School was opened at Langford in 1948 (Roberts, 1970).  
3.	Aims and scope of the medical subject collections
The aim of the medical subject collections is to support the teaching, learning and research needs of the Faculties of Medicine & Dentistry and Medical & Veterinary Sciences.  Unit and Programme Catalogues are available at http://www.bris.ac.uk/esu/ and Research Programmes at http://www.bris.ac.uk/prospectus/postgraduate/2010/all_urcs [accessed 20/09/2011].  
The collections are provided principally to meet the needs of students and staff in the Medical Faculties of the University, including honorary academic staff, and are also available for use by other eligible users including members of the Medico-Chirurgical Society, with level of access appropriate to registered user status. 
